Doc Expansion (#890)
SleipnirGroup/Choreo: docs/choreolib/auto-routines.md

# Auto Routines

## Setup

### AutoFactory

ChoreoLib provides the `AutoFactory` class as a higher level API to make it easier to create complex auto routines inside your robot code.

You can setup the `AutoFactory` by calling `Choreo.createAutoFactory`

```java
// The most basic usage of the AutoFactory
class Robot extends TimedRobot {
  /** A swerve drive subsystem */
  private final Drive drive = ...;
  /** An object that manages information about robot position */
  private final Localizer localizer = ...;
  private final AutoFactory autoFactory;

  public Robot() {
    autoFactory = Choreo.createAutoFactory(
      drive,
      localizer::pose,

>       drive::choreoController

Reviewer: missing comma

# Auto Routines

## Setup

### AutoFactory

> ChoreoLib provides the `AutoFactory` class as higher level API to make it easier to create competitive and complex auto routines inside your robot code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ChoreoLib provides the `AutoFactory` class as a higher level API to make it easier to create complex auto routines inside your robot code.
```

Author: Why not include competitive?

Reviewer 2: That's a quality that we can't guarantee from the Choreo side. If competitiveness equates to complexity, it's redundant anyway.

You can setup the `AutoFactory` by calling `Choreo.createAutoFactory`

```java
// The most basic usage of the AutoFactory
class Robot extends TimedRobot {
  /** A swerve drive subsystem */
  private final Drive drive = ...;
  /** An object that manages information about robot position */
  private final Localizer localizer = ...;
  private final AutoFactory autoFactory;

  public Robot() {
    autoFactory = Choreo.createAutoFactory(
      drive,
      localizer::pose,

>       (p, sample) -> drive.drive(new ChassisSpeeds(sample.vx, sample.vy, sample.omega)),

Reviewer 2: This is not a good controller function to copy.

Author: Ill add a comment that its bad but including a good one is out of scope of that particular example, maybe ill just black box it for the example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      drive::choreoController
```

      () -> DriverStation.getAlliance().orElseGet(() -> Alliance.Blue).equals(Alliance.Red),
      new AutoBindings()
    );
  }

  public void autonomousInit() {
    // Running just the movement of a specific trajectory
    autoFactory.trajectoryCommand("myTrajectory").schedule();
  }
}
```

### AutoChooser, AutoRoutine, and AutoTrajectory

The `AutoFactory` can create `AutoRoutine` and `AutoTrajectory` objects that can be used to create complex auto routines.

> The `AutoChooser` provides a simple api to structure your auto routine generation in the most performant way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `AutoChooser` provides a simple API to structure your auto routine constructors in the most performant way.
```

Author: I don't like constructors here, that word is already used in java

Author: factories is already used by `AutoFactory`... we're running out of words lmao, I think keeping it simple with just "creation" could be fine

or want to have concurrent command groups running independently that might handoff `Subsystems` to each other.

Triggers aim to solve these problems by providing a way to define a control flow based on reactions to state
that don't allocate `Subsystems` until they are needed.

Triggers and composition can be used together to create complex auto routines.
Both paradigms also support branching in their own way.

!!! warning

>     Triggers can have "hygiene" issues if not used correctly.

Reviewer 3: clarify what this means

>     Triggers that are polled by the `CommandScheduler` should never

Reviewer 3: I think an example would be good here

or want to have concurrent command groups running independently that might handoff `Subsystems` to each other.

Triggers aim to solve these problems by providing a way to define a control flow based on reactions to state

> that don't allocate `Subsystems` until they are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that don't require `Subsystems` until they are needed.
```

              ampToC1.cmd(), intake(), aimFor(ampToC1.getFinalPose().orElseGet(Pose2d::new))),
          shootIfGp(),
          deadline(c1ToM1, waitSeconds(0.35).andThen(intake())),
          either(
              deadline(m1ToS1, aim()).andThen(shootIfGp()),
              deadline(m1ToM2, intake()).andThen(deadline(m2ToS1, aim()), shootIfGp()),
              yeGp() // if you aren't using the triggers API these wouldn't need a custom routine
          ),
          deadline(s1ToC2, intake(), aim()),
          shootIfGp(),
          deadline(c2ToC3, intake(), spinnup()),
          shootIfGp()
  ).withName("fivePieceAuto");

  return factory.commandAsAutoRoutine(ret);
}
```

### Creating an auto routine with composition and a monolithic trajectory

```java

> // This is not recommended for complex autos

Reviewer 3: If we aren't going to provide an example maybe link to pathplanner saying they support this better?

Author: Theres no reason to link out, pathplanner does not support this any better than choreolib

Reviewer 3: I know they did for 2024 has 2025 changed?

Author: No they didnt in 2024, event markers are an analog to triggers here so pathplanner does the monolithic trajectory with triggers. There is no better support for this style i can guarantee you.

Reviewer 3: In 2024 with the pathplanner gui you could import the trajectory and use Named Commands to utilise this pattern. Is that still possible for 2025?

Reviewer 2: What you're describing is triggers and a monolithic trajectory (unless you meant using a single named command at the start, with a long command group. But that was ill-advised even in 2024.)
